Game of Thrones a Song of Ice and Fire
we did record one new video on this
topic that was over an hour long had a
lot of laughter had a lot of jokes about
sex and eunuchs a lot of below-the-belt
humor and that video never got upload
but the broader truth is we both kind of
lost all interest in talking about the
TV show
we lost all interest in talking about
the books we lost all interest in
reading the books because the overall
effect of this season was so
disheartening demotivating or just just
uninteresting we just straight-up lost
interest in doing Game of Thrones Song
of Ice and Fire
commentary another thing so you have not
seen this this is news to you I've never
mentioned it to you before there was
this really broad change in the mood of
a Song of Ice and Fire YouTube the
YouTube game of Thrones demi-monde
where before so you know the last video
we had up on the channel that was
actually just a response to like episode
2 episode 3 I forget which one we just
said this episode was awful it's just
mind-blowing lawfulness there was this
shift from kind of everyone making
excuses for the show and being really
positive about the show - like a couple
weeks after the season ended it went to
the opposite extreme and there have been
a whole bunch of like really janky not
particularly well thought-out videos
they're just titled like Game of Thrones
sucks now like Game of Thrones is now
garbage that have gotten tens of
thousands of views 30,000 60,000 or over
a hundred thousand views I think because
a lot of people are now you know
wandering around the internet looking
looking for that echo chamber looking to
reinforce you know their feelings the
actual pros the people who make their
money writing became of Thrones in
magazines they're still saying it's a
masterpiece well he's interesting but it
seems like more and more the fandom has
turned against the show and with that
comes a certain level of lack of
confidence
even in the books because part of what's
been happening - again you don't know
what this there have been all these
leaks allegedly from hacked computers in
the heartless corporation making the TV
show which kind of shows how weak
I don't say okay how weak the writing
process is does that even make sense
you know that you know they're working
from these very sketchy instructions
from george RR martin and coming up with
what the final come the show is supposed
to be in terms of reflections on
democracy and monarchy ii and so in
terms of the directions the books are
going in people have kind of less
confidence than ever before of course
there's this bedrock assumption that the
books are gonna be better than the show
but how much better we really don't know
so there's a real a real sense of doom
didn't you say that george RR martin was
really negative about the show like he
doesn't even watch it right no so that's
also that's also a point it's question
how much weight to put in that suit oh
he has he has stated he now doesn't
watch the TV show anymore right that's
what people are reading into it you know
i mean there's another way to look at
that i mean another way to look at this
he's way way behind in terms the actual
writing and maybe a long time ago he
should have stopped doing promo tours
stopping him all with TV show
maybe he should have just buckle down
and trying to make the deadline in the
books you know you could put more than
one spin on it but i think most people
feel that the author has lost faith in
the creative direction the process yeah
yeah of the project yeah yeah so to give
you an examples there was one video up
which is part of this new kind of school
of thought of saying Game of Thrones
sucks which is kind of like already
become a hackneyed and again like I
don't I don't feel motivated to pile on
it our former video we did a lot of
laughing about how awful Game of Thrones
is and how awful it's become and we
compare see so at that time this was a
this was an understandable take we
compared it to the kind of strangely
sleepwalking attitude towards HBO's Rome
yeah so Rome is a completely separate
series made by the same heartless
corporation HBO did a series called Rome
a lot of the same actors a lot of people
I think would say if you like one show
check out the other but we found really
strange was long story short our
critical perspective on Rome is season
one was a flawed masterpiece flawed but
a masterpiece but
season two was jaw-droppingly awful it
was unbelievably bad so I wanted to
title that that video
HBO's award-winning garbage you know
because it just seems strange since
there's no critical capacity to
recognize that these shows are going off
the rails or getting worse and worse
even when it's as obvious as season one
of Rome verse in season two of Rome now
I mean Game of Thrones has been spread
out over seven or eight years now right
so it's it's more of a gradual
transformation I mean I think some
people do feel there was like a specific
moment when the show became garbage but
anyways maybe not not as easy to see was
wrong but I think you know in two
sentences like that that's that's worth
just worth saying we seem to be in a
situation where as soon as the show
becomes a critical darling as soon as it
becomes a masthead Show for HBO as soon
becomes their pride and joy and
award-winning you know cultural icon of
a show then we we I don't know I guess
we go into situation where the the
producers and writers are presumed to do
no wrong and they have to go a long way
wrong before anyone notices you know and
that that's understandable it's hard to
tell someone they're up when
they're making millions of dollars yeah
and winning awards and bringing prestige
to the I can't say this generally about
HBO because I've only seen brome gay
Matthew and more recently Westworld
which you have not want know I did see
West world so that was only the first
season I thought it was brilliant irony
but we'll see what happens with the
second season I remember trying to watch
Boardwalk Empire and I thought it was
garbage we tried to watch that drama
about the American Civil War America
sorry well American Revolution sorry
John yes sir John Adams system I found
it unwatchable but you know we we could
try again so now I have a few other I
have a few other experiences with HBO
being overrated and there is this kind
of narrative you know amongst audiences
and amongst professional critics that
this is the golden age of television the
you know we're living through a period
of time when television is better
yeah better than the movies better than
Hollywood movies yeah maybe true
convenience I don't I don't watch
Hollywood movies and most of our most of
our recent attempts to watch Hollywood
movies I I walk out after 10 minutes
lying you know it's like this is not
this is not at a level of walk out
meaning just close close the video
player on the computer right but yeah I
mean you know for me I'm someone where
Game of Thrones just barely is watchable
anyway yeah there's just barely enough
political content political and
philosophical content to Game of Thrones
to justify my time but the vast majority
of pop culture I could never I could
never watch yeah and I watch did you
watch all the seasons really like did
you binge watch the the first couple
seasons or have you been with Thrones so
okay there's a great question how did I
start watching Game of Thrones anyway
well I had a baby so my daughter is now
four years old so during the pregnancy
no was actually after the birth we had
newborn baby I used to I used to lift
weights I used to be doing upright rows
I would say you know might but the
uprights to excel with to hundreds of
those while watching Game of Thrones and
W while the baby was sleeping
so you'd rock the baby is sleeping you
know baby sleeps at funny times you
never really know what's gonna happen so
it was something I could do
I don't know predictably but
unexpectedly you know no particularly
reschedule and so my ex-wife I'm
divorced my ex-wife started watching
Game of Thrones and at first I was so
skeptical I'm just like oh god this is
gonna be boobie dragon sword fights
about Game of Thrones on your channel I
was like oh come on right well okay
there's this there's the nudity there's
that there's that there's the reputation
that show has for tawdry nudity right
and like dragons right there's the fact
that it's set in a fantasy world with
dragon this already kind of gives you a
preciousness germination of medieval you
know I'm just thinking thinking back to
when I first heard about the show from
one of my college friends and he was
raving about it he was like oh my gosh
these are the best books of the century
like best show and when he told me about
it I was like I don't know like I got
I've never really been into the like
historical movies or like fiction or and
this is a historical legacy but this
isn't this doesn't even do this it's as
more historical than yeah this has magic
and yeah sword fighting and you know as
well so that there's a scene in a famous
American comedy a comedy for the theater
and I totally put the name of this
comedy but so it's a comedy this is very
common for 20th century American theater
it's a it's a commentary on the theater
from within the theater so one of the
characters is the playwright for the
play kind of thing yeah it's several but
anyway so that at one point the the
playwright is reading a review of his of
his newest play which the play itself is
about you know some again it's a it's a
it's a play within a play scenario and
he sees it's a very positive review but
he's totally disconsolate in my own
blown he says a baseball play how can
they say it's a baseball play it's not a
play about baseball it's about a
father's relationship with his son and
he throws down the newspaper and says
was Hamlet a play about castles the
point being it is a play about baseball
before the playwrights perspective you
know he's offended at the suggestion
that this is a vote that this is about
you know it's said in but of course
there is a sense in which Hamlet is a
play about castles there is a sense in
which Hamlet is a play about sword
fighting I think it's actually is
important to recognize that you know
historically Hamlet was successful in
large part as an action an action movie
in action you know play there's a lot of
sword fighting in Hamlet you know a lot
of the plot twists hang on meant this
came up whistling conversation at one
point in the plot we expect Hamlet to be
a weak sword fighter but he comments
that while he was taken captive by the
Pirates he's been doing nothing but
practice sword fighting all day that he
would survive you know it is what it is
but in terms of reaching a popular
audience I don't think Hamlet was
selling tickets because of its lengthy
reflections on suicide yeah anyway but
yeah so I mean Game of Thrones is it is
you know about dragons it is about sword
fights it is about that stuff not
entirely but if
this season was pretty much a document
and about about whether or not you know
eunuch the sexuality of yet less
brothels still some nudity of it yeah
anyway there was this video but you were
brothel fewer brothels I wasn't gonna I
wasn't gonna aggression I let you I let
it fly yeah there was this video up so
speaking of being an English major that
got more than thirty thousand views
maybe more than sixty thousand I forget
and it criticized the series and and the
books was criticizing both that they had
no catharsis that this is the flaw in
the writing so this this struck me first
and foremost I think this is part of
this overall change of mood from
everyone saying the show was so
wonderful and making excuses about it
and kind of justifying it didn't respond
to it that way to now what kind of cycle
where everyone is heaping blame on the
show I want to keeping score on the show
and kind of any criticism no matter how
ridiculous is his value no not that many
people read Greek tragedy any more
ancient Greek tragedy full disclosure I
read Greek tragedy in English
translation not in the original Greek
whereas I did read pally in the original
poly and I read Chinese the original
Chinese and some stuff but no I'm I'm
not an ancient Greek scholar um that
really struck me because to me it's kind
of a mind-blowing ly stupid comment but
wrapped in a kind of veneer of
sophistication and respectability
so catharsis and this is it mean
obviously this is an ancient Greek
concept from ancient Greek drama what
kind of a person watching Game of
Thrones would feel catharsis when Ramsay
Bolton is killed so yeah I think this
guy who made this YouTube video yeah he
probably does have a probably as a
master's degree in English literature or
something I think he has a formal
education this stuff okay you you could
feel that and I think it's actually a
criticism of the show and contours to
the book what are we supposed to feel
happy when the evil character is torn
apart by dogs by his own dogs by his own
right or should you feel happy should
you feel catharsis this is the OL
catharsis in the ancient Greek sense
when
circe poisons the daughter of the woman
who poisoned her own daughter that is
catharsis in the strictest ancient Greek
sense that's exactly what they did with
their tragedies including their most
formal semi-religious tragedies it is
imagined in ancient Greek theater some
some of the plays were comedies some
were were informal but the the high end
or that Dido the deep end is simple some
of them were very close to religious
rituals where they were they were acting
out you know drama they're acting
scripts about Hercules but that they
regarded as religious you know in the
same way that acting out you know the
execution of Jesus Christ or something
is as a deeply religious ritual a lot of
them were very happy very very formal in
that sense and that that was catharsis
was when you had that type of revenge
you know an example is when somebody
murders the person who plotted to murder
their own father and the 30 years
earlier this is kind of crap but you
know and all the evidence is that the
crowd cheered you know what that was
satisfy that you know this was a culture
where that was regarded positively now
again like medieval Christian England
for stealing a pad of paper for stealing
stationery a man would be broken by the
wheel in a public square with the crowd
cheering a lot of these pre-modern
cultures the idea of revenge the idea of
the death penalty for what we'd consider
trivial crimes was part of daily life
maybe she's a weekly life you know you'd
go to the local festival you'd go to
whatever the you know whatever the event
was and you'd see people being executed
and tortured to death there was you know
par for the course part of your culture
so I mean there's a broader question of
what does catharsis mean today is it
even possible to have catharsis through
violence in these kind of movies
no probably there isn't horror genre
probably there is in mainstream crap but
I'm what problem I mean you know in
comic book release I don't know is that
why people watch comic book movies do
they actually want to see Batman get
revenge against the people who killed
his own parents I don't think so
like I don't even think the audience for
Batman is that unsophisticated I don't
think people think yeah if Batman
commits murder that's good because
murder
was committed because I don't think
people see it that way but to me to me
that's really interesting because it's
so well for one thing it's just terrible
criticism of Game of Thrones and I think
part of the subtlety of the book you
know what you even see this within the
Dunkin egg novels what is justice in
dunk and egg dunk doesn't want to have
his foot in his hand cut off right he
doesn't want to face an unjust sentence
yes he also doesn't want to murder seven
people you know this is a tournament of
seven against seven and a couple people
died not you know and a good man dies a
man who would have been king there's all
this earth all these terrible what is
justice Neil what should you feel
catharsis does anyone read that story
was anyone so stupid I think this story
is written so that you're supposed to
cheer like yeah like Duncan egg won the
sore fight there for that like there for
those people deserve to die there for
dunk didn't deserve to have his foot cut
off for the you know the crime he
committed which was a crime and which we
know was basically because he had an
erection for this woman he had a crush
on this girl he wanted to sleep with his
girl so he mutilated a member of the
royal family and that's the reality he
wasn't you know the outsiders perceived
it as if he was standing up for the the
poor and the downtrodden and he wasn't
he was trying to get laid you know would
you say this is the psychological to me
that's the way george RR martin barton
writes and that's what we have to expect
now in the books we assume that Ramsay
Bolton will die you know it hasn't
happened in the books yet maybe Ramsay
Bolton will be eaten by his own dogs but
I think exactly the point will
inevitably be that you know there is no
justice there is no catharsis unless
you're some kind of monster unless you
are a Ramsay Bolton like character
yourself who would believe that's a good
or great thing you know I mean even I
mean you know Duncan egg you're kind of
getting in at the shallow end of the
swimming pool where you get into the
main stories it's not that morally murky
yet but you know these I don't know did
you finish all three either Duncan I
don't know if you got to the end okay
right so you did so you know I mean the
dispute over who controls the water in
this river and the land ownership can be
resolved through marriage and this stuff
okay you want to talk about justice
which is I think how that read the the
author would talk about it just you know
it's complex it's dissatisfactory and so
on do you want to talk about catharsis
like
you know who's stupid enough to be like
cheering for one side like yeah the old
man got his revenge or the you know that
that's the whole point is that it's not
it's not resolved through revenge is is
Cersei Lannister satisfied to poison
this woman's daughter the same woman who
poisoned her daughter with the same
poison that's very ancient Greek that's
like a textbook definition of catharsis
you know but again I mean you know I
don't know what you think of the
audience where you think to yourself if
anyone would think that that was
satisfactory or even that's what the
plots about maybe that's a failing of
the show we have no idea how that how
the book is gonna carry out I can
believe that Cersei you'll do that or do
something like that in the book we have
we have no idea what's happening you
know in the books that's thousands of
pages away still from where we're at but
uh yeah so to me catharsis is dead my
long story short on that one all right
so look we lived through a weird period
of time with this you guys missed out on
cuz the video got deleted we couldn't
get it to upload we try it again again
then I ended up accidentally deleting
the video if we try to upload it like
seven times or ability to access the
Internet kind of comes and goes here in
China but you know I felt like I was I
was swimming against the current a
couple of months ago basically and
saying that this show is crap and now
we're in the reverse situation where
everyone's lamenting that the show is
crap that's really become the dominant
narrative about about Game of Thrones
and it Nassif as you say it seems like
even the author has kind of switched
over to regarding the show as crap right
right so I tried to watch the last
Kingdom
and like I say I can just barely compel
myself to watch Song of Ice and Fire but
has enough philosophical and political
content for the books and the show to do
well for me and that also was kind of
interesting they can reflect on you you
again you have an actual English degree
but to me that made me reflect on
instead of catharsis being dead that the
hero narrative for me is dead you know
for me the weakness of that TV show and
probably better than original book I
just have no interest in a plot that
revolves around this hero and his
greatness and him solving problems
because he's so virtuous or he's so
clever and he overcomes the odds yeah so
that was that was interesting that the
next couple episodes do revolve around
him I think the worst season well and I
clicked ahead to the start of the second
season kind of wondering if it got got
more interesting and you know I mean I
guess the other thing it has okay
probably the reason why george RR martin
likes it is that it deals with religion
front and center
which obviously we're not even trying
here to catalogue what's wrong with the
TV show but in terms of the weaknesses
of the TV show versus the book the TV
show is now really the TV show being
Game of Thrones sorry the TV show Game
of Thrones is really failing to deal
with religion and as the books progress
the books get more and more religious
religion becomes more and more of a
who's cast more and more of a shadow
over the plot and so on so I can imagine
why george RR martin likes the last
kingdom so much the last kingdom is
historical not fantasy although it's
just barely historical also in terms of
costumes and stuff people look like
they're extras from Star Trek The Next
Generation they're not trying to be that
historically accurate but I mean it's a
long meditation on basically the tragedy
of England becoming Christian you know
with just you know there's a sense of
dread about what medieval Christianity
means in Europe and in England
specifically and of you know torture and
just all the horrible aspects of
medieval Christianity creeping into that
society but that hero narrative to me
man I yeah I have zero interest I've
absolutely zero interest which again
made me reflect on well why is it that I
can get behind Game of Thrones basically
nobody in Game of Thrones is a hero you
know and even if you think of one or two
characters as heroic they're not they
don't perceive themselves as such
they're not perceived as such and within
the fictional world and there's a lot of
ambiguity and bumping of shoulders
between would be heroes or
I know you've seen it but yeah that's
how West world is like that there isn't
one here oh yeah that is interesting
about the show well I mean you know one
of the basic concepts we had in the 20th
century was the theater of ideas and I
mean ultimately you know for me Game of
Thrones Song of Ice and Fire
it's interesting as a theater of the
theater of ideas and I think the vast
majority of people say no they quote
George Martin bethis it's about the
human heart and contact in conflict with
itself it's about the passions it's
about the emotions and so on you you
really care about how Jon Snow feels
really at any point but any point in
season seven you care about how Jon Snow
feels you know I don't anymore we said
this in the in the earlier video the
romance tree Jon Snow and Ygritte
actually was a successful romance and
had kind of tipped stereotypical
audience members were on the edge of
their seat and so on the romance between
Jon Snow and Daenerys is the non-event
of 2017 it's it's literally not worth
talking about we couldn't be bothered to
make a youtube video talking about it
it's just it's just garbage so yeah hey
they go guys some interesting
reflections on HBO's award-winning
garbage I wonder if in terms of what can
work in those story meetings at those
table readings I wonder if there really
is a problem or a pattern with these
shows being cursed by their own success
you get over a certain level of success
and then you start to lose the sort of
necessary self-criticism and rounds of
rewriting improvement and
self-improvement that made maybe the
first three seasons so great or as good
as they are or whatever you want to say
I know you know it's commonly said that
one of the best elements of the first
three seasons were actually the filler
scenes because they didn't have enough
material and then that would write these
scenes like dialogue between Vera's
philosophical dialogue between Vera's
and Littlefinger which was not planned
was written last-minute and stuff they
would have these rounds of rewrites and
filler which which produced some of the
best most philosophical material on the
show evidently that's gone
and what you've got net left now is a
kind of you know brainless action movie
booby dragon sword fights and if you
came here to watch an action movie
there's not enough of any of those three
there's not enough sex or sexuality the
interviews not enough boobies compared
to well you can get on the internet oh
boy you can get in the next channel on
TV it's not it's not sexy you know it's
not romantic it doesn't work in the way
the Ygritte plot worked as a really
involving one it's not doesn't really
work or it's not satisfactory as an
action movie you can watch a kung fu
movie or something and I don't think the
high fantasy elements can carry it
either again okay I said do you care
about Jon Snow's feelings did you care
when that dragon died did that reach you
emotionally of course not I rest my case